Contact Mohammad Mohib Ayub

mohibayub23@gmail.com

www.|inkedin.com/in/mohibayub-009a33147 (Linkedln)

Summaw
Top Skills & Technologies Experienced Founding Board Member of ACM Student Chapter with a
Deep Learning demonstrated history of working in the Educational Technology and Computer

Software industry. Mentorship experience in Al and Machine Learning workshops
and development of Deep Learning and Neural Network models.

Brief knowledge about Software Verification and Validation with an experience in
Data Visualization automated testing with Selenium.

Problem Solving Skilled in Python (Programming Language), Computer Science, Machine Learning,
Python (Programming Language) Linux, and Algorithms. Strong business development professional with a Bachelor
of Engineering focused in Computer Science.

Natural Language Processing

Blockchain

 

Educaﬁon

Courses / Gert'flcatlons: PES University Electronic City Campus (Affiliated to VTU)
Data Visualization

University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign
- Coursera

Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Science - (2017 — 2021)

Machine Learning .
Stanford University - Coursera Experience

UniConverge Technologies Pvt. Ltd.

Machine Learning Intern
April 2020

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

Software Engineering Virtual Experience
JPMorgan Chase & Co. - InsideSherpa

Deep Learning Model Development for
Natural Language Processing Tasks

Qin1 - CodeQ

Online Instructor (Internship)
March 2020 — April 2020
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

Technology Teaching Department

Organizational / Volunteering Experience: Techwarts

Logistics Assistant Student Mentor
inGenious hackathon, 2019 October 2018 - October 2019

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
IEEE PESIT South Campus Student

Branch volunteer Mentorship at Machine Learning club.

Registrations Assistant Bolt IoT
ICACCI Conference, 2018 Student Intern

April 2019 - May 2019

Founding Board Member Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

ACM PESU—ECC Student Chapter
Business Development and

popularizing concepts of ML & IoT.Other activities,
Hackathons and Competitions:

Game Jam 2018, game
development hackathon at PES
University.

dotSIash 2019, open innovation
challenge at PES University.

Kludge 2019, PES University
Electronic City Campus.

IoT Congress India 2019, PoP91
innovation challenge by IET India.

 

Projects

1. IoT based prediction of forest fires - April 2019:

The prototype planned to build is a real—time prediction and alert system based
on environmental sensors that uses classification techniques to predict
occurrences of fires and protects forest assets and prevents tires from spreading.

2. Detection of illegal deforestation & logging with

Neural Networks - August 2019:

Detection of illegal logging by Audio Processing with Convolutional Neural
Networks over protected forest regions. The prototype planned to build is a
system which could detect sounds of logging trucks, chainsaws, hammers etc.
and detect suspicious activities in the vicinity of a protected region.

3. Human Activity Recognition using Smartphones - October 2019:

Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is classifying activity of a person using
responsive sensors that are affected from human movement. Both users and
capabilities (sensors) of smartphones increase and users usually carry their
smartphone with them. These facts make HAR more important and popular. This
work focuses on recognition of human activity using smartphone sensors using
different machine learning classification approaches. Data retrieved from smart
phones' accelerometer and gyroscope sensors are classified in order to
recognize human activity.

4. Driver Drowsiness Detection - March 2020:

The objective of this project is to build a drowsiness detection prototype that uses
Python, OpenCV, and Keras which will alert the driver when he feels sleepy. The
trained model will detect that a person’s eyes are closed for a few seconds. This

system will alert the driver when drowsiness is detected.

5. RetrievaI—based Chatbot - March 2020:

The chatbot prototype is built using deep learning techniques. The chatbot will be
trained on the dataset which contains categories (intents), pattern and
responses. We use a special recurrent neural network (LSTM) to classify which
category the user’s message belongs to and then a random response from the
list of responses is given.

The chatbot is a retrieval based chatbot which uses NLTK (Natural Language
Processing Toolkit), Keras and is programmed in python.

6. Multilingual Toxic Comment Classification - April 2020:

It only takes one toxic comment to sour an online discussion. A main area of
focus is Machine Learning models that can identify toxicity in online
conversations, where toxicity is defined as anything rude, disrespectful or
otherwise likely to make someone leave a discussion. To identify these toxic
contributions and to achieve a safer, more collaborative internet, we make use of
a Graphical Generative BERT model in Keras (tensorflow 2.0) with HuggingFace
transformers Python library, providing pre-trained models that are extraordinarily
useful for Natural Language Processing (NLP).